at its core this channel is about a guy
who back in 2015 late 2015 bought an
a6000 and then bought a bunch of
accessories and lenses for it and what
turned out as a photography hobby turned
into a quasi career if you want to call
it that and even today the most common
question that I get from you guys is
what camera should I get if I'm just
starting out what length should I get if
I'm just starting out and what should I
buy if I'm on a budget so that's the
question that I'm going to answer in
this video and I'm going to take it
quite literally I bought a camera and a
lens about three or four weeks ago for
the purpose of this video so you'll see
what I paid how I bought them this is
what I bought the camera body a6100 and
the lens the sigma 16 millimeter F 1.4
which should come as no surprise for
those of you who have followed my
channel for any length of time now if
you just came to see the camera in the
lens this is it but I think that this
video gets a whole lot more interesting
when I just discuss my rationale and my
overall thoughts in purchasing this lens
over other lenses and this camera over
other cameras so let's start with the
camera body itself this is the a6100
that I bought just a month ago or so for
this video I paid 490 dollars for it on
eBay but after taxes it's 541 dollars
USD it's used but advertised as only 200
clicks on it in the listing and indeed I
checked it and snapped the 160 second
photo with this camera which is nothing
it's like a brand new camera body and
the condition is Flawless no scratches
or blemishes to mention now what's great
about buying the a6100 in 2023 is that
prices are a bit more down to earth you
guys may remember I did a video sometime
in 2020 when I couldn't buy one of these
cameras for less than a thousand dollars
even used now it's about five hundred
dollars which I think is incredible
value so the question is why the a61 100
why not the more expensive a6400 a6600
why not the zve10 why not a full-frame
camera body why not a smaller one inch
sensor body and I will say this
I have a lot and I have owned a lot of
camera bodies over the course of this
YouTube channel at one point in time I
had all six of the aps-c lineup for a
comparison video and in fact I did own
all six of those camera bodies and since
then I've kind of traded some of them
off for other newer camera bodies and I
guess the point that I'm trying to get
to is the fact that out of all the
cameras that I've owned and that I
currently own the a6100 is by far the
one that I use most often that I've
taken the most photos with that I've
done the most video work with and really
the reason is the a6100 is just as good
for photo and video work as the a66 and
the a64 and the zve10 for that matter so
why would I not recommend the cheaper
a6000 well because I don't think that
the savings is quite worth it let me
start by saying that in most cases
you'll save about 100 us if you are
looking for a used a6000 versus an a6100
so 4 400 for an a6000 or 500 for an
a6100 to me is a no-brainer get the
a6100 if you walk into your local Best
Buy and want to buy a camera there first
of all probably a bad idea but check out
the price of the a6000 here
still in 2023 next there are some big
improvements and advantages to having an
a6100 over in a6000 the color science
first of all is vastly better and
improved battery life is significantly
better overheating and video is solved
you have better video codecs you can
record in 4k instead of just 1080P and
I'm not saying that the a6000 is a bad
camera I know a ton of people who still
use it and still love it and it's a
camera that started it all for me and
for many others out there but again the
a6100 is simply better for not much more
money but Arthur Why not pick up the
zvee 10 which is a newer better camera
body so they say anyway on YouTube and
there are a couple of reasons for this
now if you guys don't know the zve E10
is kind of a more video focused mini
aps-c camera so it's similar to the
a6100 but again it's geared more towards
videography has a little flippy screen
whereas this one doesn't have the flippy
screen it just does the Tilt the biggest
deal with the zve10 is it has built-in
Eis or electronic image stabilization so
for video work you can stabilize your
footage and make it look better which is
a big deal but there are some drawbacks
to this first and foremost and the
biggest thing for me
the viewfinder electronic viewfinder
that you see on this which means you can
put your eye up here and see what you're
shooting does not exist on the zve E10
which is a big big shortcoming if you
are using these cameras for photography
if you're outside on a sunny day and
you're trying to snap a photograph
that viewfinder is priceless honestly uh
it's annoying that it's not included on
this camera and I do miss it when I take
this out and I'm trying to take
photographs the other thing is there's a
couple of other small quirks that I
don't really like about this camera the
fact that Sony removed a whole bunch of
functional buttons and I mean functional
as in real function buttons and then
other buttons that have functional
purposes just makes this camera more
difficult to use out in the wild than
the a6100 add to that it's a little bit
more expensive even out on the used
Market you're looking at 600 versus
about 500 and to me that electronic
stabilization as great as it is you have
to do it in post but you have to do it
before you put together and edit your
YouTube video so again I would much
rather spend the extra hundred dollars
and buy a cheap gimbal using a 6100 and
have stable video versus using this
handheld and then having to go in
manually one by one stabilize all the
clips and then export them put them into
Premiere and then edit it's just more of
a hassle and the last justification is
why would you not go out and spend the
money on a full frame Sony mirrorless
camera
right here and this is perhaps the most
fun one to answer because it makes the
most people angry or upset or
uncomfortable whatever it is but I'm
gonna start out with some facts fact is
most people don't need a full-frame
mirrorless camera
they just don't fact is most people who
have a full-frame Sony mirrorless camera
they're not pushing the camera to its
limits they really aren't most people
who have an aps-c camera in most
situations are not pushing that camera
to its limits these cameras are very
very capable and even in my eyes I think
that they are too capable for me and you
can call me an amateur you can call me a
professional whatever it is now there
are two reasons why people Buy
full-frame cameras or why you should
consider buying a full-frame camera in
general number one is low light
performance because the sensor on this
camera is larger than the sensor on this
that means it gathers more light so if
you're working in the dark if you're
shooting video or photos in the dark
this is going to give you better images
and better video and the second reason
is similar but if you're taking pictures
of let's say a person portrait work and
you want super duper blurry backgrounds
this is going to give you more subject
separation and a narrower focal plane so
at an equivalent focal length the full
frame camera will give you you a
different look if that's what you're
about so you have to ask yourself two
questions are you going to be shooting
outside in the dark to wear a camera
that's going to offer you maybe 20
better performance is that going to be a
routine thing for you to where you'll
see that Improvement or are you going to
be photographing people where a 20
smoother background or more blurry
background is going to make a difference
to you or a client that is paying you
and I'll say this here because I think
this is important and needs to be said
most people who are out there buying the
newest best greatest most expensive
full-frame mirrorless cameras are more
gear heads than they are professionals
and I say this not in a negative way but
from experience because I have several
people in my family who are
photographers that's what they do for a
living and I can't even have a
conversation with them about cameras or
gear because they don't know anything
about cameras or gear they have their
One cam camera that they love that
they've always used they have one lens
that they use usually a prime 35 50 75
85 whatever it is that's their one go-to
lens and that's all they want and I
asked them do you want to upgrade do you
want something better
no they don't they simply don't they're
happy with what they have and their work
is constantly improving the actual
photography or the actual skill side of
their business on the flip side I talk
to people who are wearing a Sony A1 six
thousand dollars with a nice G Master
for a couple thousand dollars on it and
ask them what they do for a living and
they have an office job but they like to
do photography on the weekends and again
I'm not saying this in a bad way because
there are certainly professionals out
there who have the newest and the best
gear and that's great I applaud them for
doing that and having that I'm just
saying that there's a big section of
people who just like having the newest
gear I mean I'm one of them I I'm all
about getting the newest and greatest
camera bodies mostly to share that with
you guys but also because I'm genuinely
interested in seeing where this stuff
goes where the camera industry goes and
where lens manufacturing takes us I
guess what I'm trying to say is that the
gear that you have does not define or
even indicate the level of talent that
have I'm more impressed with someone who
can take an amazing shot with a cheap
aps-c camera and lens then I am
impressed with a photo taken by someone
with a twelve thousand dollar camera
setup now does the Gear help absolutely
but I think at a certain point the
expensive gear becomes an excuse not to
focus on refining your skills and that
is bad if you don't have to think
anymore because your camera does all of
the thinking for you are you really a
photographer and what I found especially
with aps-c cameras and lenses compared
to full frame is after aps-c you get an
increasingly diminishing return for
every additional dollar that you spend I
mean the curve is pretty flat towards
the end meaning that if you buy a good
camera body that's an aps-c with a good
lens you can perform almost as well as a
full frame setup at half the price maybe
a third of the price what you get for
double and sometimes triple your money
with a full frame camera is not double
or triple better in comparison sometimes
it's not even better at all so for most
people especially those just starting
out the aps-c size sensor is going to be
more than enough to start out your
Photography in your video journey and
this will allow you for many many years
of growth and development and building
up your skill set so that's the camera
body this is what I recommend for the
bunny if you are starting out and look I
think we are on the cusp of some new
camera bodies from Sony I really do I
think we should see some new APC bodies
out soon with improvements and features
that will be very compelling but if
you're new if you're starting from zero
and you don't want to spend more than
you have to the a6100 is still the best
solution and now on to the lens so this
is the sigma 16 millimeter F 1.4
contemporary series lens that came out
in 2017 and probably is the most popular
lens available for Sony aps-c email I'd
like to think that I'm part of the
reason for that because this is the lens
that I've recommended to more people
than any other lens that I've ever
recommended and that says a lot I did a
video a couple of years ago if I could
only have one lens which one would it be
it was this one now if I were to remake
that video today I'd probably change my
opinion a little bit because I am a big
fan of the new Sigma 18 to 50 and it's a
little bit more usable but for the money
you simply cannot beat this lens right
here in fact when I look back at all the
photos that I've taken over the years
the majority of them the vast majority
of them were taken with this 16
millimeter Sigma it's a very sharp lens
it focuses well and quickly it offers
nice subject separation even though it's
a wide field of view it's a wide angle
so you can use it in almost any
situation and the results speak for
themselves it does everything well and
is an extreme versatile lens for being a
prime meaning that you can't zoom in or
out because I still get that question
sometimes yo I bought a sigma 16
millimeter how do I zoom you can't bro
you just can't this one in particular
was one I picked up used as well about
three weeks ago and I paid a nice 230
dollars US for it used on the photo
Market Forum on Reddit it's a great
place to look if you're trying to pick
up a lens or a camera for cheap from
someone else no sales tax so all
together for the camera body and the
lens I am in this setup for 771 dollars
U.S give yourself another fifteen
dollars for an SD card that's 785 or so
all in now is this the best lens out
there probably not and undoubtedly there
will be better lenses released out in
the future but for the money I think
honestly you cannot beat it for 230
especially used there's nothing out
there that will ever come out that will
beat this in terms of performance in
terms of build quality in terms of
Optics whatever it is the one thing that
I will say is that I do as I mentioned
before really like the new 18 to 50 from
Sigma it's a zoom lens constant F 2.8
but the problem with this lens is that
even used it's expensive it's four to
five hundred dollars versus 230 dollars
so that's why I didn't put it in this
video but if you have a little bit more
money check this one out the other thing
is because this is a prime lens meaning
you can't zoom in or out it forces you
to zoom with your feet and really think
about composition where stuff is rule of
thirds all of that stuff so it forces
you to become a better photographer to
use it which I think is a good thing as
well so all together this is simply a
financially smart and functionally
Brilliant setup you don't need much more
for starting out your photography and
video Journey this is the camera and the
lens that I used to film probably over
50 percent of my YouTube videos when my
wife started her workout Channel this
was was the camera and the lens that she
used in fact this entire video that
you've been watching has been filmed
using an a6100 and the sigma 16
millimeter but these are my own that
I've owned for the past four or five
years and
it's great honestly in a small room like
this for the purposes of making YouTube
videos you cannot get anything better I
think even by spending double money the
goal at the end of all of this is
hopefully you start out you get this
camera and lens and you use it to make
awesome videos and take amazing pictures
for paying clients and then you grow
your business and slowly upgrade what
you need lights gimbals Studios whatever
it is and then you can check out more
expensive cameras and lenses but you
don't need the best of the best in the
beginning you simply don't and even if
you never do something professionally
even if you are just snapping photos and
capturing family moments I can't tell
you how amazing it is to have these
memories it's a moment that is 1 400th
of a second that's frozen in time but
carries so much emotion and feeling
behind it that's why I bought my a6000
in the first place my goal was never to
become some YouTuber and show off my
skills to some audience my goal was to
take some good pictures of my family and
to save those memories because I knew we
only have a finite time on this great
big green and blue ball that we call
Earth and I think I'm going to end it
right there I hope that this has been
helpful thank you guys so much for
watching stay tuned for more have a nice
day bye
